dev-docs/pull_requests.md, before:

- Use the PR template
- Preferably, prefix your branch names with your name. e.g. `garyhtou/branch-name`
- Update your branch by merging `main` into your feature branch rather than rebasing. Rebasing will create new commits causing review comments to shift out of order.
- When merging PRs into main, squash and rebase


## Per-merge Checklist

- [ ] Descriptive PR title _(Does the title explain the changes in a concise manner?)_
- [ ] Easily digestible commits _(Are the commits small and easy to understand?)_ [video](https://gist.github.com/garyhtou/97534180b0753aa607c35b6fdda9d2e0)
- [ ] CI passes _(Do the GitHub checks pass?)_
- [ ] Tested by submitter before requesting review _(Does the test plan pass in development or staging?)_
- [ ] Tested by reviewer before merging <!-- leave this unchecked until right before merging -->
- [ ] After merging: Close related issues
- [ ] After merging: Notify the requestor of the issue. Post in `#hcb-team` if the feature impacts HCB Ops
- [ ] After merging: Write and approve `#ship` message

Commit message:

Make a small update to our pull requests guide

dev-docs/pull_requests.md, after:

# Pull Request Guide

- Use the PR template
- Preferably, prefix your branch names with your name. e.g. `garyhtou/branch-name`
- Update your branch by merging `main` into your feature branch rather than rebasing. Rebasing will create new commits causing review comments to shift out of order.
- When merging PRs into main, squash and rebase

## Per-merge Checklist

- [ ] Descriptive PR title _(Does the title explain the changes in a concise manner?)_
- [ ] Easily digestible commits _(Are the commits small and easy to understand?)_ [video](https://gist.github.com/garyhtou/97534180b0753aa607c35b6fdda9d2e0)
- [ ] CI passes _(Do the GitHub checks pass?)_
- [ ] Tested by submitter before requesting review _(Does the test plan pass in development or staging?)_
- [ ] Tested by reviewer before merging <!-- leave this unchecked until right before merging -->
- [ ] After merging: Close related issues
- [ ] After merging: Notify the requestor of the issue. Post in `#hcb-team` if the feature impacts HCB' operations team
- [ ] After merging: Write and approve `#ship` message
